This document describes TIPL users and features from the top level.

## TIPL Description

A TIPL or “Tokenized IP License” is a way to organize community sourced software projects. We are proposing to accelerate development with “code mining”. Code mining automates the evaluation and merging of code and skills that are generated by AI and humans. The resulting code and IP will be covered by a TIPL. A TIPL allows an acquirer to buy the contributed IP by buying a majority of a related crypto token. The crypto token will have value because it controls the IP. We can use these crypto tokens to reward contributors, and to pay for compute and other development expenses. We will create projects on Github that are each related to a specific crypto token.

## Goals

The goal of the TIPL system is to quickly produce software and skills for a specific type of user. We add AI tools and token incentives to accelerate development and distribution. A secondary goal is to add value to crypto tokens that are related to that user application.

## USERS

The users of this system are:

- The **founder** of the TIPL system, Andy Singleton. He will be a benevolent dictator of the top level TIPL project. He guides the design, manages the implementation, recruits other maintainers, and controls the distribution of TIPL tokens.  
- The **maintainers** of other TIPL projects. They will create projects, create tokens, guide development, and recruit users.  
- **Contributors** to TIPL projects. They will contribute code, skills, and other IP. Contributors can be humans or AI agents. We will set up a system to send them token rewards

## FEATURES

### Tokens

Generate and distribute tokens for each new TIPL project.

#### Roadmap

* The MVP for a TIPL token is a standard ERC-20 token on Base. It is not mintable or pausable. It should have a name, symbol, and a coin icon  
* The next step is to automate the setup of Uniswap trading pools for each token. A new Uniswap pool will contain a single-sided placement of the token with a range from 0 to $1M  
* The next step is to add features for controlling the distribution of tokens, including a lockup of the Uniswap LP positions, and lockup and vesting of tokens for the treasury.

### Directory

We will keep a list of supported TIPL projects that is maintained by the top level TIPL project. New projects can get into this list by running the setup and sending 5% of their tokens to the top level TIPL project.

The directory will include an application that displays information about the projects. Users of this application can search for projects. They can see lists of the most active projects, most valuable projects by token value, and new projects.

The data structure is a database or a github repository that is controlled and edited by the top level TIPL project maintainer.

### Setup

A maintainer uses the Setup application or setup skill to create a new TIPL-sourced project.

The setup should be implemented as a Web application for a human. The setup should also be implemented as a Claude Code skill for an AI. 

Implement the skill version first. Include scripts for local signing of blockchain transactions, with an option to sign with a hardware wallet such as Ledger.

Setup has the following inputs:

* A blockchain for token deployment
* A token name  
* A token symbol  
* A coin icon  
* A github repository name  
* A github repository to fork. This is an optional input  
* A description of the project  
* An email address and a Twitter account for the maintainer  
* A blockchain address for the project treasury

The setup will go through the following steps:

* Create a token. Mint the token. Send 5% of the tokens to the TIPL treasury address.  
* Create a github repository in the skill version. In the interactive version, require the user to create a matching repository. This can be created as a fork  
* Make a TIPL license file that references the new token. Add the TIPL license file to the repository.  
* Optionally create a Uniswap pool for trading the token, and deposit 20% of the token supply as single-sided liquidity with a range from 0 to $1M  
* Send all remaining tokens to the project treasury address  
* Create an entry in the TIPL directory for this project. Include the token name, symbol, icon, project repository, maintainer email, maintainer twitter, and treasury address

### Project Treasury

The Project Treasury is a blockchain address that holds the tokens that were created for a project. It can receive tokens from vesting contracts, and it can control AMM LP positions.

In the first implementation, the project treasury is a multisig SAFE with the founder and benevolent dictator as a single signer. We can upgrade the controls on this multisig address to addgovernance.

### Governance
A newly launched token and trading pool will not have value, because the project treasury can dump dump tokens and take money from buyers. To add value, we need to control the distribution of tokens. We will do this by adding governance to the project treasury.

We propose a set of features and a governance ranking system

#### Governance Rank 0
The project treasury is controlled by a single benevolent dictator.

#### Rank 1
The treasury has a cosigner from TIPL with a 2 of 2 signing requirement. This prevents dumping, and it is a minimal step to make the token tradable.

#### Rank 2
The treasury has a set of at least three qualified signers with at least 2 required for signing. This provides redundancy, recover, deliberation, and adds reputation points.

#### Rank 3
The token distribution is stabilized with automated lockup and vesting of tokens and LP positions. We will develop contracts which can do lockup, and also allow the recipients to participate in tender offers.

#### Rank 4
The treasury can sign with futarcy. We will provide a futarchy implementation.

#### Rank 5
Rank 5 is reserved for future best practices.

### Tender vault

A smart contract and app to handle tender offers for TIPL tokens.

### Code Mining Tools

We want to add automation to the process of contributing and reviewing changes.

#### Requests

Provide a ticketing system that accept request, and develops them into more complete requirements and prompts.

#### Contribution

Automate the process of contributing contexts, code and skills that users generate locally while working with their AI assistants.

#### Consolidation

Combine similar requests, contexts, code and skills to make one high quality change.

#### Review and merge

Use automated reviewers to evaluate code quality and feature appropriateness. Summarize the goal of each change. Send a list of proposed merges to the human maintainer.

#### Reward

Develop a system that sends token rewards to contributors.

## TECHNOLOGY

We assume that maintainers are using Claude Code.

We will use github to share code and other files. We will add tools and applications for requests, testing, and code review.

We will start by deploying tokens to EVM chains such as Base. We will add tokens on Solana.

We assume that all users will have a blockchain wallet address.

Make Web apps using a framework that we can deploy to Vercel, such as Next.JS

## CONSTRAINTS

The maintainer should spend less than $1000 per month on AI inference and other API services. Move expensive calls to local computers where contributors will pay for them.   
